Title : 
India vs Australia: Done enough to say I am the best spinner, says Ashwin


Link :
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//sports/cricket/india-in-australia/india-vs-australia-done-enough-to-say-i-am-the-best-spinner-says-ashwin/articleshow/80441612.cms


Date and time: 
Jan 25, 2021, 08:21  IST


Paragraph: 
CHENNAI: R Ashwin has toured Australia on multiple occasions with the Indian team, but the latest trip will have to be the most
memorable one. Not only did the 34-year-old leave a mark with the ball -- neutralising the threat posed by Australiaâs batsmen,
especially Steve Smith and Marnus Labuschagne, but Ashwin also delivered with the bat when it mattered. During a chat with a
select group of journalists on Sunday, Ashwin spoke about the historic series Down Under, his duel with Smith and more.
Excerpts...Talking about the series Down Under, do you reckon the Aussies underestimated Indiaâs bench strength?I am not too
sure. I personally think they knew our bowling was going to challenge them all through the series. I think it is just that the
team found ways to bounce back after being bowled out 36. Itâs not just the bench strength alone that dictated the way the
series went. Every time there was a challenge thrown -- somebody in the team raised the bar. 01:34Record-breaking India clinch
Australia Test series in Gabba thrillerHaving travelled to Australia a few times before, would you say this was the best you have
bowled there?Looking back , you can say that. I've always maintained that you cannot really say this is the best or anything
because you never know, something else could lie in front of you. Before the Adelaide game, I limited myself to a certain number
of balls (in practice) because I just wanted to go there and get a feel of things. It didnât look like I was going to start the
series in all honesty. But (Ravindra) Jadeja damaged his hamstring and that is why I got my opportunity in the first Test. Things
fell in place and I also have been feeling over the last two years that I have been bowling well. Yes, 2018-19 (series in
Australia) was good, but I think 2020-21 was one of the best if you compare the last three years. In recent times, your batting
has come under criticism. How important was the Sydney knock for you personally?There have been questions raised over my batting
since that West Indies tour (in 2016). But one more thing that needs to go into consideration is (that) I was playing all formats
of the game (at that point of time). Sometimes, roles of people just playing Test cricket alone don't really sit down well or
people don't make an effort to understand how it works. Ever since I've just been playing Test cricket, it's pretty much a one
game here or there. Iâm constantly fighting for a lone spinnerâs spot. If I have to be judged on my batting skills, then an
innings or two alone to drop me out of a particular series, I felt, wasnât justified. I am looking to fight for my place and
when I'm doing that I need to emphasize my primary skill which is to pick up wickets. Over the last two years in SENA tours, I
think I have done enough to say I am the best spinner. Talk to us about the duel with Steve Smith?There has been a lot of noise
about how I am bowling, and pitting me against someone like Nathan Lyon. During the previous tour in Adelaide, I picked up six
wickets and kept on bowling despite a tear in the abdomen. After the match, there was a comparison between us with suggestions of
how well Lyon bowled. I felt it was extremely insensitive towards a good performance. I feel I have been constantly put under the
microscope. So rather than me competing against Lyon, I thought I must be competing against Smith. Lyon is a lovely bowler and I
have respect for him. But my focus was on something else. There were records that Smith had never got out to spinners in
Australia. I wanted to turn that around. A lot of people were talking about who will dismiss Smith. But nobody even gave me a
chance. Then I made sure that people spoke about me at the end of the series. When Virat left, the captaincy was handed over to
Rahane and Pujara took over the vice-captaincy, which then went to Rohit Sharma. Is there a tinge of disappointment about you not
getting that job?I am not at all disappointed. I go out there and make my own plans and get my fields that I want. The captains
and vice-captains that I have played with have been very supportive of whatever I have wanted. Leadership is also about leading
yourself and keeping your space upbeat for any situation that arises. If you can help another teammate thatâs also leadership.
India vs Australia: I've let R Ashwin dictate terms, no spinner has done that to me before this, says Steve SmithYou have been led
by Kohli and Rahane. Talk to us about the differences in their style of leadership.I am totally blown away by the kind of
comparisons people like to make when it comes to captaincy. I feel this Indian team has had some wonderful results in the past
because of quality players and human beings in the dressing room. Virat is more expressive, communicative and in your face while
Rahane doesnât do these three things. But the way they captain the side is pretty much similar. LHS ( not = ) RHS ! Yours
happilyIndia tour of OZ 2020/21Humbled by all the love and support we have receivedâ¦ https://t.co/lk9LDDBXyy— Ashwin ð®ð³
(@ashwinravi99) 1611046817000How are you shaping up for the England series? Is the 400-wicket milestone at the back of your
mind?Had you asked me this question some time ago, I would have said yes, but not now. Once I crossed 200 Test wickets, I stopped
looking at milestones. England are coming with an amazing preparation in Sri Lanka where the wicket has spun over the last two
Tests. When we beat them 4-0 last time, they played amazingly but results did not go in their favour. We were just too good on a
lot of occasions. England are one of the teams who come well-prepared for a Test series.


