Title : 
Not sex assault if thereâs no skin-to-skin contact: Bombay HC


Link :
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/not-sex-assault-if-theres-no-skin-to-skin-contact-bombay-hc/articleshow/80440473.cms


Date and time: 
Jan 25, 2021, 10:38  IST


Paragraph: 
MUMBAI: When there is âno direct physical contact â skin to skin with sexual intent, without penetration,â it would not
amount to âsexual assaultâ under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, Bombay high court held while
acquitting a 39-year-old man who had been sentenced to three yearsâ imprisonment under section 8 of the Act by a trial court for
pressing the breasts of a minor. Justice Pushpa Ganediwala of Nagpur bench of the HC said âstricter proof and serious
allegations are requiredââ given the stringent punishment of three to five yearsâ imprisonment that âsexual assaultâ
under the Pocso Act entails. âEvidently, it is not the case of the prosecution that the appellant removed her top and pressed
her breast,â said Justice Ganediwala adding, âThe act of pressing of breast of the child aged 12 years, in the absence of any
specific detail as to whether the top was removed or whether he inserted his hand inside the top and pressed her breast, would not
fall in the definition of âsexual assaultââ. Why the Bombay High Courtâs judgment acquitting man under POCSO is completely
flawedBut it would attract punishment for molestation under Section 354 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), said the HC, and convicted
him for the âminor offenceâ. He was sentenced to one year in jail. The HC said the issue before it was whether âpressing of
breastâ and âattempt to remove salwarâ would fall within the definition of âsexual assaultâ as defined under Section 7
and punishable under Section 8 of the Pocso Act. While public prosecutor MJ Khan argued the offence fell within the definition of
âsexual assaultâ, the HC held it was ânot possible to acceptââ the prosecutorâs submission. The court said the
âbasic principle of criminal jurisprudence is that punishment shall be proportional to seriousness of crimeâ. The trial court
in Nagpur had last February sentenced the man under section 8 of the Pocso Act and under section 354 IPC (assault or criminal
force with intent to outrage a womanâs modesty). The man had appealed his conviction. The girl had testified that she was lured
on a false pretext by the accused to his house. She said he had tried to remove her salwar and had pressed her breast. She tried
to shout, but he covered her mouth and left the room after bolting the door from outside. Her mother went to his house while
looking for her. She had seen the accused leave, and on reaching the first floor found the door bolted from outside and her
daughter crying inside. She then went to the police station along with her daughter to lodge an FIR, noted the HC. The man was on
bail. The HC issued a non-bailable warrant against him and said all his other sentences shall run concurrently and he would be
entitled for a set-off of term undergone in custody.


