Title : 
Republic Day 2021: What to expect ahead of this year's parade


Link :
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/republic-day-2021-what-to-expect-from-this-years-parade/articleshow/80442260.cms


Date and time: 
Jan 25, 2021, 12:10  IST


Paragraph: 
NEW DELHI: The 72nd Republic Day celebrations tomorrow will have several firsts and will also miss out on some long-standing
traditions for the first time. While the number of visitors, tableaus and participants in the parade will be significantly less
this year, the highlights will be the Rafale flypast, a foreign contingent and Indiaâs first woman fighter pilot. Bangladesh's
armed forces contingent to participateThis year, a 122-member contingent from Bangladesh's armed forces will be part of the
Republic Day parade. They will celebrate the 50th anniversary of the 1971 Indo-Pak war that led to the liberation and creation of
Bangladesh. This is the first time that a marching contingent from a neighbouring country is being invited to participate in the
parade. France has been the other country to feature in a previous year. This will be the third time India will be hosting a
foreign contingent to participate in the parade after the French troops in 2016 and the UAE personnel in 2017. Bangladesh Armed
Forces contingent rehearsing ahead of Republic Day. (Credit: PTI)IAF tableau to feature Indiaâs first woman fighter pilot Flight
Lieutenant Bhawana Kanth, who became one of the first three women fighter pilots in 2019, will be part of the IAFâs tableau
featuring mock-ups of a light combat aircraft, a light combat helicopter and a Sukhoi fighter jet loaded with made-in-India
missiles that will showcase the air forceâs Atmanirbhar Bharat capabilities. Ft Lt Kanth, who hails from Biharâs Begusarai is
currently posted at an airbase in Rajasthan where she flies MiG-21 Bison jets. Indian Air Force personnel rehearse for the
Republic Day parade. (Credit: ANI)Rafale fighters flypast over RajpathThe star attraction of the parade will be the Rafale fighter
jets doing a âvertical charlieâ at the end of the flypast. The Indian Air Force (IAF) will also display a vintage Dakota
aircraft, the squadron of which had helped Indian troops âsaveâ Srinagar from tribal militants backed by Pakistan in 1947 and
also played a key role in Bangladesh's liberation war. Apart from two Rafales, Sukhoi-30s, MiG-29s, Apache and Chinook choppers
will also catch visitorsâ attention on Republic Day. Indian Air Force's Rafale jet flies past Rajpath, Delhi. (Credit: TOI)Ram
Temple, Union Territory of Ladakh and Covid vaccine tableauThe Ladakh tableau, which is making its debut in the parade, will
depict the iconic Thikse Monastery and the regionâs rich cultural heritage. The Uttar Pradesh tableau will display a model of
the upcoming Ram temple. A tableau of the Department of Biotechnology will showcase the indigenous production of Covid vaccine
showcasing Indiaâs self-reliance in the fight against the pandemic. A total of 32 tableaux â 17 of states and UTs, nine of
ministries and six from the defence arm â will roll down Rajpath. Ministry of biotechnology tableau during the full dress
rehearsal at Rajpath, Delhi. (Credit:ANI)CRPF to have its own tableauThe Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) for the first time
will have its own tableau during the Republic Day parade. The tableau will feature CRPF's combat skills in conflict zones The
tableau is set to wow spectators with a display of panoramic four-eyed night vision goggles (NVGs). Also known as the 'king of
night vision', NVGs are a warfare gadget similar to the ones used by United States Navy SEALs in their operation to eliminate
Osama Bin Laden. The goggles provide a 120-degree vision. Republic Day dress rehearsal in Bangalore, (Credit:TOI)Andaman & Nicobar
Islands troops to participate for the first timeFor the first time, a contingent from the Andaman & Nicobar Islands will
participate in the Republic Day parade on the mainland. Over 95 per cent personnel in the contingent will be locals belonging to
different tribes. The contingent comprised 96 personnel, 2 JCOs and one officer. The unit is part of Madras Regiment whose primary
objective is to create a robust intelligence in the area as the people are from tribes and fishing communities that have a hold on
their islands. Jawans during full dress rehearsal, Delhi. (Credit: ANI)First-ever time there won't be a chief guestFor the first
time ever in more than five decades, there won't be a chief guest presiding over the Republic Day parade. United Kingdom Prime
Minister Boris Jhonson was slated to be the chief guest, however, weeks ahead of the 72nd Republic Day celebrations, the British
leader cancelled his visit to India citing fresh lockdown in England and the rapid spread of the new Covid strain. Folk artists
from Tamil Nadu sit before a full dress rehearsal, Chennai. (Credit:AFP)No participation of military veteransThere will be no
participation of military veterans in the 72nd Republic Day parade due to Covid-19 restrictions. The contingent of military
veterans features India's bravehearts in their advancing years and commemorates their commitment and sacrifices made for the
country. Folk dance artists of Tamil Nadu rehearse in Chennai. (Credit: AFP)Parade route curtailedThe route of the parade has been
curtailed till National Stadium (C-Hexagon of India Gate), unlike previous years when it was till Red Fort. Dog squad participates
in dress rehearsal, Bangalore. (Credit: Bangalore)No stunts, No gallantry awardsDue to Covid-19 safety norms, gravity-defying
stunts by motorcycle-borne men, a major attraction for the crowd during Republic Day celebrations on the Rajpath, will be missing
this year. Besides, the parade of gallantry awardees and children who have earned bravery awards will also not be there at the
72nd Republic Day event, on account of social distancing, they said. Cadets of Tamil Nadu Police rehearse for Republic Day Parade
in Chennai. (Credit: AFP)Fewer participants, smaller audienceThis year, the number of participants in the Republic Day cultural
programmes has been cut down from over 600 to just 401 this year, to avoid overcrowding and follow social distancing norms in view
of the Covid-19 pandemic. The size of marching contingents has been reduced from regular 144 to 96. The spectator size too has
been reduced to 25,000 from 1.5 lakh. Mask has been made mandatory for all personnel marching in rows. Preparation of upcoming
Republic Day parade is full swing at Rajpath, Delhi. (Credit: TOI)Hundred meritorious students in Prime Ministers's BoxAt least
100 meritorious students from schools and colleges will get a chance to see the Republic Day parade from the Prime Minister's box
on Tuesday, according to the Ministry of Education. The students will also get to interact with Education Minister Ramesh
Pokhriyal 'Nishank' after the parade. According to a ministry official, 100 students have been shortlisted for the purpose -- 50
from schools and 50 from higher education institutions. Last year, a total of 105 toppers from CBSE and universities across the
country got a chance to watch the 71st Republic Day Parade from the PM's box. (With inputs from agencies)


